[world-vercel] [builders] Add WORKFLOW_SEQUENTIAL_REPLAYS option to limit flow route concurrency to one (#2193)
vercel/workflow: .changeset/enforce-strict-concurrency.md

---
"@workflow/world-vercel": minor
"@workflow/builders": minor
"@workflow/next": minor
"@workflow/sveltekit": patch
---

> Add opt-in `ENFORCE_STRICT_CONCURRENCY` env var. When set to `1`, flow (orchestrator) routes are limited to one invocation per run at a time via a per-run queue topic and `maxConcurrency: 1` on the flow trigger. Step routes are unaffected.

Author: ```suggestion
Add opt-in `ENFORCE_STRICT_CONCURRENCY` env var, which limits flow route concurrency to one in Vercel environments, at a small queue latency cost.
```

Author: (AI) Superseded: the variable was renamed to `WORKFLOW_SEQUENTIAL_REPLAYS` and the changeset text has been updated since. The current changeset also reflects the per-run-topic wording.

> Add opt-in `WORKFLOW_SEQUENTIAL_REPLAYS` env var. When set to `1`, flow (orchestrator) routes are limited to one invocation per run at a time via a per-run queue topic and `maxConcurrency: 1` on the flow trigger. Step routes are unaffected.

Author: AI Review: Note

This PR targets `stable` directly. The backport automation only flows `main` → `stable`, so nothing will carry this to `main` automatically — the feature would be missing from the next major. Confirm there's a forward-port plan (or a matching `main` PR) so the flag doesn't silently regress on upgrade.

Author: (AI) PR body now includes the release plan: forward-port to `main` after this merges (backport automation is main→stable only). The v4 docs for the variable land on `main` via #2875 so the live docs site covers the 4.x feature regardless.
